# Open Dental SQL Queries

This repository contains the Open Dental SQL Queries that AccruDent uses to generate the AR reports needed for the accrual accounting conversion.  

If you don't have any idea what most of those words mean, [this](https://www.accrudent.com/accrual-accounting) might help. 

## Explanation of Files

`accrudent_ar_detailed.sql` - This report pulls every patient with an accounts receivable or payable balance and organizes both pending patient payments and insurance payments into aging categories. I've also added a column to see payments plans that have yet to be completed, even if we don't consider them true AR. This report doesn't show totals, it's mostly used for data validation. 

`accrudent_ar_summary.sql` - A summarized version of the detailed AR report that only shows totals. This is what we actually use in the books. 

`accrudent_prod_detailed.sql` - This report pulls the production, payment, and adjustment totals for each patient. This report doesn't show totals, it's mostly used for data validation. 

`accrudent_prod_summary.sql` - A summarized version of the detailed production report. We use this to snapshot an office's total AR and production numbers at any given time, so they can be compared month over month. 

`aging/` - This folder contains the query generated by Open Dental under Reports > Standard > Monthly > Custom Aging. I haven't done a lot of work with it, but it helped form the base of the reports we use in production. 

`aging_of_ar/` - This folder contains the query generated by Open Dental under Reports > Standard > Monthly > Aging of A/R. A significant amount of work has been done to document and breakdown this query. 

## Quick Caveat

This code is constantly under revision as we make refinements to our process, so we cannot guarantee that each version will pull data in exactly the same way. Use at your own risk. 

## Next Steps

* Compare numbers between production and AR reports to make sure everything lines up
* Add detection methods to show when adjustments, payments, or procedures have been modified after the date of transaction/service

## Contact / Contribution

Feel free to submit a pull request, and I'm happy to review it! I'd love for multiple people across the industry to collaborate. I'm also more than happy to be told I'm making incorrect assumptions, I promise you cannot offend me. Much more concerned with finding the truth than being right!